So what is networking.
Well networking or network is two or more devices that is connected and can thereby communicate with
each other.
And that is really what we're going to focus on in this entire course that we have multiple devices
that are able to talk to each other.
So we are going to look at how such can happen.
And when we say networking it might sound kinda simple because when we say oh we are just communicating
over a network or we are just sending information but you can compare it to shipping when you're talking
about shipping.
That also sounds very simple but when you dive into the different aspect of shipping a parcel as we
see in the picture right here there are so many different steps that someone has to take care of before
the package gets from the shop where you bought it to your front door and it is the same with networking.
Whenever we are doing something online there is a lot of steps that is happening behind the scene and
that can be broken down through as same model which we are going to talk about in this lecture.
So do as I model.
This is the network model that is defining all the aspects that are happening when we are doing communication
or one that work.
And it consists of seven layers.
So we have layer one the physical layer which is the lowest layer and the lowest level where we have
the electric bikes and cables where we have Layer 7 which is the application meaning the application
and front and that you're interacting with which is the highest level.
And then we have these different layers in between.
So before we get into the different layers it's more important that we understand how it is or same
model actually works.
So even though that we now know there are these several layers it's important to see how this is working
in practice.
So for example if you have computer a right here a computer be right here then a person on a is going
to send something to computer b he is starting on the application layer and then he is working on the
computer and the electronics bit within his computer is working its way down from application layer
all the way down through the different layers until it resets it reach the physical layer and then it
is going to be transferred over to computer B which is starting from the lowest layer and then working
its way up until it is capable of sending the data that computer a send.
So this is how to assign model works.
It start from the top in to one and all the way down and it goes from the bottom up in the other end
to them.
So we have the first layer which is the physical layer and as I mentioned before this is the lowest
level.
So this is cable and byte.
It is here we have the electric
voltages happening and it is here we have our network interface cut and it is also here we have all
cable so this is on the very basics where it is not cold anymore but the electric impulses that is getting
transferred to the cable then we have to layer to which is the data link layer and this is where we
Peg it our bytes into frames and it is also in this layer that we have our mac addresses on our computer
which is a unique address that is hardcoded into your network card meaning that compared to an IP address
is something that you can change whenever you want.
You cannot change your mac address you can do mega spoofing but it is totally another thing.
But again you can simply change this.
So this is the layer to where we are using Mac addresses.
If we're going to communicate then we have to lay a tree which is one step above.
And this is where we get introduced to the IP addresses whereas we for before and layer two relied on
mega addresses.
We are now using IP addresses so an IP address is really a logical address and it is definitely hardcoded.
So it is something that can be changed when we are in need of a new one and therefore it is not a unique
address because either it can be changed on your local machine internally within the network or your
Internet service provider can change it in their setup.
So it is not something that is hard coded and it is also this layer that is doing the network routing.
So whenever you are using a router for example that is a tree device because it is distributing packages
based on the different eyepiece and it is sorting who is going to get what based on the IP addresses
on the packages.
That is going to be transferred then we have to leave for.
Which is the transport layer.
This is they manage and control layer where we are starting to see different ways of transferring information.
For example we have the TTP and UDP which is two different protocols for the TTP we are in need of getting
identified and verified that our data is reaching our target.
So if you're using a TTP protocol whenever we are sending something out we need to get our response
back saying I got this package set menu one but if we use UDP which is the one that is most likely being
used on all streaming services and especially YouTube we are just trolling packages as to what our target.
And we don't really care if they receive them in the right order we are just spamming them with data
because if we needed an confirmation for each packages then the load time will be tremendous.
And that is not really smart.
So this is in the letter for that we are dealing with these two different protocols and it is also where
we are splitting the communication that is coming from the layers above layer four down into these packages.
Then we have the layer five which is the section position layer.
This is the layer that is controlling our traffic meaning that it is the layer that is establishing
and it is managing and it is terminating our connection.
And it also coordinate this communication and take charge of how much we are allowed to send and when
we are allowed to send it.
So whenever you are going online it is the layer for that is taking charge of establishing the connection
when you are getting connected to something online.
And it is also delay of five that is in charge of turning this connection so that we don't have thousands
of connections.
If when we are done using them then we have to lay a six which is the presentation layer.
This is the layer that is right below the application layer.
So this is where our data is getting transformed into a format that our application can understand.
So for example when we have some packages that God sent to us it is layer six that is transforming it
into for example X a mill or doing encryption or decryption on it before it is presented in the application.
So the last layer layer 7 application layer this is where our data is presented and this is where we
are getting access form our application to the network.
And this can happen over here GP if GP is A.P. based on what we are going to do if it mail simply were
browsing or file transfer.
So this was a quick overlook of the seven layers and it was a model in the next pictures.
We will dig deeper into each of them along the way to understand this complex area of networking.